Lab 1: Digital Evidence Integrity with Hasher
Generate a cryptographic hash (SHA-256) of a file and demonstrate that any modification produces a
completely different hash, proving data tampering.
c drive me folder--folder me hasher.exe-- cmd me cd C:\(foldername) -   Hasher.exe -f (textfile).txt --sha256
Calculate Tampered Hash
• Repeat Step 3 on the modified file.
• Record the new hash as Tampered Hash.
Analysis & Conclusion
• Compare the two hashes.
• Study: Why a single-bit change produces a completely different hash (avalanche effect).
Even a one-word change results in a completely different 64-character hash
due to the avalanche effect in SHA-256.
Conclusion:
Cryptographic hashing ensures integrity verification. Any alteration — even 1 bit — invalidates the hash,
providing tamper-evidence critical in legal proceedings.



Lab2 Network Reconnaissance & IP Tracking
 Use built-in CLI tools to gather network configuration, active connections, and trace packet paths.
 Record IP, MAC, Gateway, DNS : ipconfig /all
Find an ESTABLISHED connection
→ note PID :                   netstat -ano   tasklist /fi "PID eq (PID)"
Count hops, identify first hop
(gateway)
:                             tracert www.google.com




Lab 3 Windows Registry Forensics with Registry
Explorer   
Objective:
Load the live NTUSER.DAT hive and extract proof-of-execution evidence from the UserAssist key
using Registry Explorer (superior to regedit ).
• Run RegistryExplorer.exe as Administrator
• File → Load Live Hive
• Select NTUSER.DAT (current user)
• Go to:
Software → Microsoft → Windows → CurrentVersion → Explorer →
UserAssist             
• Record the last 3 executed programs:
• Full path
• Run count
• Last run timestamp (converted)
Forensic Analysis
• Why Registry Explorer > regedit?
✓ Auto-decodes ROT13 ✓ Shows timestamps & run counts ✓ Bookmark navigation
• UserAssist Significance:
✓ Tracks GUI program launches ✓ Persists after deletion of shortcuts/history
Deliverable: UserAssist Execution Evidence
# Program Name (Decoded) Full Path Run Count Last Execution (UTC)





lab 4 Lab 4: Packet Capture & Protocol Analysis with
Wireshark
Objective:
Capture live network traffic, filter for specific protocols (HTTP/DNS), extract artifacts (e.g., visited
websites, DNS queries), and reconstruct user activity from packet data.


wireshark admin me blue fin websites open ; 30 sec bad red button; filter  http -look for get : rclick get packet-follow-http stream     host name, 2nd block number   and timestamp on main window   :; filter: dns: standard query a for test.local: normal click record queries-name
dns.qry.name contains "test.local"
http.request.method == "GET"
http.host contains "neverssl.com" 


Q1. Analyze a capture file to determine the most prevalent protocols and their proportional impact on the network.
Stop the capture and navigate to Statistics > Protocol Hierarchy.
3.Task:
o Identify the top three protocols by Packets percentage and report their values.
o Identify the top three protocols by Bytes percentage and report their values




Q2. Identify all unique devices (endpoints) on the network and analyze the conversations between them.
•  Procedure:
1.	Start a Wireshark capture and allow it to run for at least 5 minutes.
2.	Stop the capture and go to Statistics > Endpoints.
3.	Select the IPv4 tab.
4.	Go to Statistics > Conversations.
5.	Select the TCP tab.          sort by highest packets sent


Q3.Objective: Use the I/O Graph to visualize network traffic and identify a significant traffic spike.
•  Procedure:
4.	Navigate to Statistics > I/O Graph. spike ka time note (for eg 4s) then  Display Filter: frame.time_relative >= 3.5 && frame.time_relative <= 5.0
then Statistics > Protocol Hierarchy.  look at highest bytes






